---
title: Start your journey to become a Java Developer
date: 2022-12-01 20:01:01 +0100
categories: [Beginner, Java]
tags: [start at Java]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
pin: true
---

# Start of the Java developer

Welcome to square one, young Padawan. This is my collection of information. I arranged it so that the next person does
not have to invent the wheel again. But to become a programmer, there are some things you should know.
What you need is knowledge and experience. Don't worry about experience, we will look at a free course that gives you
300 - 500 hours of experience in writing Java.
And don't worry about knowledge, take your time and don't rush it. Take my course here for 1 blog post a day. Browse it,
read it, watch some movies and ultimately, follow the tutorials and exercise.
Exercise, exercise, exercise. May the force be with you.

What is your motivation to become a Software Engineer?
How much time do you spend creating projects?

The answers to these questions are important for yourself, although I would be happy to hear them. Your progress depends
a lot on your effort, and your effort depends on your motivation.

> Why do you want to become a programmer? What is important to you? What gives you energy? What do you enjoy doing?
{: .prompt-info }

> Do you have a roadmap? Where do you want to be in 1 year? What do you want to know and learn? What is your goal in life
in 5 years? And 10?
{: .prompt-warning }

I want to tell you that I can't give you experience, you can only gain it yourself. It's important to see, read, follow,
and imitate code until you understand it.

> Tip: Look for a Youtube tutorial and try to develop a TODO app for yourself. You will encounter all the basic things
needed for an app.
{: .prompt-tip }

To help you out, here are some videos with basic information that you really need to hear. Sometimes we need to hear
things multiple times before we understand them, but this is the key.

Repetition and routine are powerful for the brain.

You will learn in this course to use Java 17 or higher
with [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot), [Project Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/)
and [MapStruct](https://mapstruct.org/).

## Love for the profession cannot be forced.

- programming = frustration

> sometimes you get through it, and you don't know how to solve a problem or technical problems will slow you down,
> don't give up.
{: .prompt-danger }

- a hockey stick learning curve

> You will learn a lot in a short time, but when the real work starts you won't feel ready, and you think you know
> too little. You can learn what you don't know, and you are always learning. Remember that. You can do this!
{: .prompt-warning }

- when you are stuck you also learn

> thinking about how to solve a problem is most of the work and the key of this profession, if you know how to solve a
> problem, making the solution is a matter of time.
{: .prompt-info }

- if you don't know how to proceed, go for a walk, for real, like literally walk for 10 minutes or more, go around the
  block, or something.

> It is important to take a break, to interrupt your process, walking is good for processing information in the brain
> and you cannot have walked too much. Walking stimulates your thinking process, you learn faster if you walk regularly.
> I
> doubt it will make you healthier. It is also good for your eyes not to stare at this screen all day. Zooming out by
> leaving your work for a while will help you come up with the right solution more often.
{: .prompt-tip }

Do you still feel like getting started? Then you first must delve into the following thinking method; this method helps
to
make tasks and assignments more overview-able, and when you make a task small enough, there is always a part of the work
that you can do.

***
This is a list that explains OOP (Object Oriented Programming). It's how coding works and a standard in the industry.
It's explained as short and simple as possible, but that doesn't make it easier to understand.

{% include embed/youtube.html id='UJcbFIV4JSQ' %}
{% include embed/youtube.html id='K8eOkzQ_o9w' %}
{% include embed/youtube.html id='ajOYOxCanhE' %}

{% include embed/youtube.html id='tIWm3I_Zu7I' %}
{% include embed/youtube.html id='L1-zCdrx8Lk' %}
{% include embed/youtube.html id='sNKKxc4QHqA' %}

{% include embed/youtube.html id='pTB0EiLXUC8' %}

***

## Code Gym

You will have to dream this:

```java
class MyClass {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    System.out.println("Hello world!");
  }
}

```

{: .nolineno }

This is where the magic happens

### [Start daily exercises in a Code Gym](https://codegym.cc/)

Look at this website and do 3-5 lessons to get started. it might take you 15 minutes, but probably less. You will
quickly learn how the magic works. Within a week you will be able to program a calculator.
> It has a too long intro trying to tell a story but the experience is vital
{: .prompt-danger }



***

## Some helpful YouTube tutorials:

- [Project Lombok Training](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLiwhu8iLxKwLq6ywhKlDjEICChBvH0PfH)
- [Map me if you can! Painless bean mappings with MapStruct](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nvjqtWQ5zj8)
- [Spring framework Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLw_k9CF7hBpJJsRWAhwSrDlWAzuMV0irl)
- [Spring Boot Tutorial(All In One)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLzS3AYzXBoj8UcLsBN3UXd7Nf1T4ZyJa0)
- [Java Technologies](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javaee/javaeetechnologies.html#javaee7 "Java Technologies")

> These tutorials will be here when you return, but you can also just follow these right now. For now just know that I
> have got you covered and save you the search for decent videos.
{: .prompt-info }

## "Stay Hungry, Stay Foolish" -- Steve Jobs

***
> Start daily exercises [in the Code Gym](https://codegym.cc/)
{: .prompt-tip }

# [Start with: Begin by knowing how to think]({% link _posts/2022-12-02-computationalthinking.md %})

